# Data Type
+ Data types in Javascript refers to the types of the values that we are storing or working with.
+ One of the most fundamental characteristic of a programming language is the **set of data types** it supports.

+ **Data types can be divided into two:**
  1. Primitive data types.
  2. Non-primitive data types(Object References).

## Primitive Data types
Primitive data types in JavaScript include:
- **Numbers** - Integers, floats.
- **Strings** - Any data under single quote, double quote or backtick quote.
- **Booleans** - true or false value.
- **Null** - empty value or no value.
- **Undefined** - a declared variable without a value.
- **Symbol** - A unique value that can be generated by symbol constructor.

### Numbers
+ A JS number is always stored as a **floating-point** value(decimal number).
+ JS does not make a distinction between **integer** value and floating-point* values.
+ **Example:**
```js
let nums = 10;
let numbers = 10.22;
```

[Math Object](./Math_Object.md)

### Strings
  + The string is a sequence of characters and can be created using 3 different ways give below -
    - Using the Single Quote.
    - Using the double quote.
    - Using the backticks.

  + **Example**:
```js
let str1 = "hello";
let str2 = 'hello';
let str3 = `hello`;
```

[String Method](./String_Method.md)

### Boolean
+ **Boolean** data type has only two values: **true** or **false**.
+ **Example:**
```js
let bool1 = true;
let bool2 = false;
```

### Null
+ When any variable's value is unknown, you can use the **null**.
+ It is good practice to use the **null** for the empty or unknown value rather than the undefined one.
+ **Example:**
```js
let houseNo = null;
```

### Undefined
+ When you declare a variable but don't initialize it, it contains an **undefined** value.
+ **Example:**
```js
let houseNo;
```

### Symbol
+ It is used to create unique **primitive, and immutable values**.
+ The **Symbol()** constructor can be used to create a unique symbol, and you may pass the string as a parameter of the Symbol() constructor.
+ **Example:**
```js
let sym1 = Symbol("123");
```

## Non-Primitive Data types
+ Non-primitive data types are **modifiable or mutable**.

   - Objects
   - Arrays
   - Date

### Objects
+ The **Object** data type allows us to store the collection of the data in the **key-value** format.
+ **Example:**
```js
let color = "Brown";
const obj = {
	animal: "Hourse",
	legs: 4,
	hourseColor: color
};
```

### Array
+ The **array** is a list of elements of the different data types.
+ You can create an array using two square brackets `[]` and insert multiple comma separated values inside the array.
+ **Example:**
```js
const colors = ["Brown", "red", "pink", "Yellow", "blue"];
```

### Date
+ You can use the JS **Date Object** to manipulate the date.
+ **Example:**
```js
let date = new Date();
```
